these are the iPhone 16s and this should
be a huge year for battery improvements
Apple said that the iPhone 16 and 16
plus should have a big boost yes that
was the official term they used but then
also that the iPhone 16 Pro Max should
have the best battery life ever on an
iPhone so let's find out if they were
telling the truth and just how long
we're talking about here so this is the
$1,199 iPhone 16 Pro Max the $999 16 Pro
the $899 16 plus and then the $799
iPhone 16 and we're doing something
different this year we're comparing
these new phones to two iPhones from
last year the top end iPhone 15 Pro Max
and the base iPhone 15 but also Samsung
to see where Apple sits against the
competition so this is the Samsung
Galaxy s24 Ultra which is the best phone
that Samsung makes okay let's unplug the
test begins now and since I wanted to
base this test off a typical days usage
let's begin with a workout app that I've
just started using so the big question
how has Apple achieved this supposed Big
Boost in battery this year well two
things the first is they've apparently
added bigger batteries to all iPhone 16s
which sounds like the most obvious thing
I've ever said but you would be amazed
how resistant phone companies are to
doing this I would guess because Apple
knows how much people want bigger
batteries combined with how a bigger
battery is one of the easiest ways to
upgrade a phone that they specifically
save these battery improvements for
years where there's not much else going
on kind of like a Band-Aid always ready
to slap in and fix a slower year of
changes okay so that's an hour of
workout and oh the base iPhone 16 is
currently leading the pack that seems
like a strange result but I'm not
worried I've done enough of these
battery test to know that the software
of a phone will sometimes tell you it's
on one percentage even when the battery
itself is actually on something quite
different the one thing that can't lie
is the final result how long till the
phone completely dies so let's jump into
some work now this is slack this is the
messaging app that our team uses so I
have bravely asked them all to say
something funny for the next hour and I
did want to add that there's another
reason that I think phone companies have
resisted battery improvements over the
years is that they don't just want you
to buy one phone they want you to keep
upgrading phones and so I imagine a big
part of why they're so stingy with
battery is it would hurt their
businesses if they gave you too much
like imagine if one year Apple doubled
the battery life on their iPhones I
would bet everything I have that 3 to 4
years after that around the time where
the people who bought that phone would
normally start upgrading to the next
thing significantly less would do so
because batteries degrading over time is
one of the primary incentives to upgrade
but if you start with more battery than
you need then you don't care even when
it degrades time for Instagram let's do
some planned spontaneous Dooms growling
so yeah the last time that Apple
properly upgraded the batteries on their
phones was between the iPhone 12s and
the iPhone 13s and even though that
wasn't a massive year of other changes
battery is so important that I would say
that one change alone made the iPhone 13
stand out as a good time to upgrade my
point being that even though the iPhone
16s feel like a smaller more incremental
update to the iPhone 15s if the battery
improvements are actually big then that
alone would be enough to put them on the
map so there's a lot resting on this and
so is it working for them well you can
see that the normal iPhone 16's battery
has fallen back in line it's still doing
really well but just now at a sensible
believable level Samsung is the one
who's taken the lead which man would it
not be such a smooth move if on a table
of six iPhones though one Samsung is the
one that takes the win oh can you see by
the way that the iPhone 15 screen has
gone super dim well that actually ties
perfectly into the second reason for the
Apparently improved battery life this
year the first is the larger battery
which we've talked about but the second
is the new chips in these phones see the
iPhone 16 and 16 plus are running
Apple's new a18 chipset and the 16 Pro
and proax are running the new a18 Pro I
won't get too technical here but
basically these chips are designed using
a new process that manages to get the
transistors closer together the
transistors are kind of like the
building blocks of the chip so if
they're packed in even closer together
it reduces the communication distance
making them faster making them more
energy efficient which is the thing
that's good for battery but also less
hot and that is a key part of why the
iPhone 15's display is dimmed and the
new phones haven't yet and this
Improvement to the chipset should
actually be a particularly big jump for
the base iPhone 16 and 16 plus because
those phones have actually jumped
forward two generations before Apple
would only let the pro phones have the
latest tech and so the normal iPhone 15
is using a chip from 2 years ago even
even though it's last year's phone but
this year it's simple every new iPhone
gets a new a18 generation of chips I
guess because all iPhones need to run
Apple intelligence and apple
intelligence requires this new hardware
that said after 4 hours now that we're
jumping into YouTube is it looking like
as big of a claim as Apple was making it
seem well so far the new iPhones are
outpacing their last generation
counterparts the iPhone 16 is doing
better than the iPhone 15 and the iPhone
16 Pro Max is doing better than the
iPhone 15 Pro Max but they're also
they're not exactly crushing them it's
really Samsung who seems to be running
away with this test now bear in mind
this Samsung Galaxy s24 Ultra I've never
actually tested in one of these battery
videos before but I have used it as my
main phone for a while and I have been
blown away by battery life so if Samsung
wins this it doesn't mean that the new
iPhones have poor battery but it also
wouldn't reflect great on Apple since
battery is meant to be one of the big
new things here also just so you know
we've taken a lot of precautions to make
this t as Fair as possible all phones
are on their latest non beta updates so
that means every iPhone is on iOS 18 and
the Samsung is on Android 14 we' bought
new versions of each phone so nothing
here has had more than five charging
cycles and their battery is 100% healthy
the room temperature is controlled at
18 C because that's been the average of
indoor and outdoor temps for us they're
all on light mode their settings are
calibrated their screen brightness is
matched they will look very slightly
different to you because of natural
variances in panels and also are the
viewing angle from the camera but they
are matched my point being that there
are things that you can't factor in with
a test like this like no phone has a SIM
card in because that would introduce a
whole new tier of variables but at the
same time this should give you as
accurate a representation as you can get
of how all of these phones perform
relative to each other we're on the
cameras now by the way and this is
probably the most demanding thing that
any normal person does on a day-to-day
basis because recording 4K video pushes
just about every single component in
your phone to the max all at once so
this is where you expect overheating and
rapid battery drain but oh boy I'm
actually particularly impressed with
this Samsung and it shows that serious
work has been done somewhere here the
Galaxy s24 Ultra has a 5,000 mAh battery
and you might know that Samsung's had
5,000 Mah batteries for ages on their
Flagship phones but they never used to
be this good there was a time not that
long ago where iPhones that had less
than 4,000 mahs were destroying Samsungs
that had 5,000 the iPhones were just
getting far more juice per milliamp hour
but that looks like it's flipped now
Apple doesn't disclose precise Milli
measurements but the estimate for the
battery size on this 16 Pro Max is
around 4,700 which if true means that
this phone has 95% of the capacity of
the Samsung but it seems like it's
lasting less than 95% as long so its
juice per milliamp hour if that term
isn't taken I'm coining it is looking
lower for the first time ever the side
note isn't it actually kind of
mesmerizing watching chat gbt write out
7 20,000 word essays at the same time
what a wild time to be alive now as for
why this Samsung is doing so good I've
been thinking about this I thought it
could be a Samsung specific thing but
that wouldn't be my first guess as I've
noticed Android flagships in general
lasting a lot longer this year it could
be related to the new Snapdragon chip
that most top-end Androids are being
powered by and maybe that's a factor but
that can't be the main thing because my
new Google pixels battery is also really
surprisingly good and that doesn't use a
Snapdragon then I realized the Common
Thread it's Android 14 every phone I've
tested that has surpris me with how good
the battery is has been running Android
14 which has fixed basically a loophole
that allows apps to consistently run in
the background if they decide they want
to and based on how much of an
improvement this software seems to have
made that loophole might well have been
the thorn in Android side that's now
been removed and well it changes the
entire landscape so the iPhone 15 is
down and out after 7 hours and 45
minutes just before we're about to enter
some heavier gaming and oh look the
iPhone 16 has just started dimming too
it's good to see that the pro iPhones
and the Samsung are not dimming cuz you
know you would expect that Pro phones
are designed to be able to take more
stress oh no I'm wrong the pro has just
started dimming now too iPhones
sometimes do this just before they die
but the fact that I can't turn the
brightness back up does mean that this
is a thermal issue well that's
disappointing pointing and now both
phones are out in the exact same minute
but from this point now that it's just
the big Bo left let's just get to it
let's fast forward this test all the way
to the Finish now it's brutal seemingly
unending finish right into the late
evening which is when the editing starts
and I'm going to do something a little
extra this time around as soon as we've
gone through the battery drain results
I'm also going to while the phones are
here quickly stick them on charge so we
can see how fast they go the other way
so as you've seen in seventh place was
the iPhone 15 with 7 hours and 45 not an
amazing result but still I would say
sufficient battery for most medium users
then there was a pretty large gap before
the 16 died which is good based on the
intensity of this test 8 hours 19 is a
sign that I still wouldn't recommend the
16 to the absolute heaviest users but
you've got more than enough as long as
you're not one of them and then
completely neck and neck with the 16 is
the 16 Pro and I'm kind of both glad
that Apple has managed to make a compact
phone with actually great battery life
now while also feeling a little
disappointed that they didn't manage to
make the pro last well even a minute
longer than the base iPhone isn't
battery life like the single feature
that power users are going to need more
of than basic users and then another
large gap later the iPhone 16 plus
called it at 8 hours and 45 minutes this
is great battery there is no doubt about
it but it's also not as great as I
expected I actually assumed that this
plus would Outlast the base 16 by at
least an hour and so the fact that its
lead has ended up as just 26 minutes
means battery isn't really a massive
factor in going for the plus this
generation the iPhone 15 Pro Max has top
end battery life this one I expected to
last a long time and it absolutely did
with 9 hours and 35 which I think is
down to the extra efficiencies from the
promotion display that can both scale up
the refresh rate when you want things
super smooth but also scale down to
really low refresh rates when your apps
just don't need it so in apps where it
can scale back it will save you a lot of
battery in second place then the iPhone
16 Pro Max does indeed improve upon the
15 Pro Max's already Stellar battery
life with 11 hours and 22 minutes which
fair play that's pretty amazing but not
amazing enough the Samsung actually did
just go and do it it beat every iPhone
and while this isn't the longest battery
life reading I've ever recorded it's
worth bearing in mind that every time we
do this test you shouldn't expect the
same results and you can't compare
between them because I'm always updating
the app list and so if we look at how
well Samsung has performed compared to
the phones in this test then it's far
enough ahead of supposedly the best
iPhone battery life ever that I think
this is the best battery on any phone
that has been put through our tests and
now that all the phones are fully
drained this is our perfect opportunity
to see how fast they can all charge so
I've got each phone connected to the
exact same 65 W plug that I got off
Amazon which since these companies don't
send you their recommended charges
anymore I feel like is the best plug
that most people might realistically
have lying around and while that happens
I want to show you something pretty cool
that you can do thanks to the Opera
browser this vid sponsor I am
consistently surprised at how
intelligent the bakedin Arya AI actually
is like check this out command plus
slash to bring it up on top of whatever
you're doing what's the battery life
difference between an iPhone 15 Pro and
an iPhone 15 Pro Max I mean the thing
literally draws a table to present the
information in a clearer way that's
actually crazy but it gets better
because Arya now has both image
recognition an image generation so like
I mean let's try this make me a
wallpaper for my phone that's pretty but
also has a lot of black in it to save
battery that I can download and apply
okay that's cool it's by far the best
browser for organization thanks to tab
Islands but also functionality thanks to
being able to have your tabs all the way
across the top and then your apps all
the way down the side link below to
download the Opera browser for free so
after about 10 minutes of charging these
are the percentages 22% 22% 22% 21% % wo
so basically every iPhone 16 has the
same charging speed we got 19% on the 15
Pro Max and then 22 again so the pro Max
iPhone last year was a tiny bit slower
17 bear in mind this phone can charge a
little faster if you specifically use
Samsung's own 45 W power bricking cable
but that's not cheap so if you're using
something more generic then it seems
like iPhone is likely to charge faster
catch you in the next one